This is the strategies of the book Small Stakes Texax Hold'em. 

##Pre-Flop
###General View
The best starting hands make a lot of money. A few more hands are modestly profitable. Most hands lose in the long run. 

###Three Types of Profitable Starting Hand
* Top pair hands
* Speculative hands
* Powerhouse hands

####Top Pairs
AKo: Big Big off-suited

Win small- medium-size pots by making top pair and having it hold up. After making a pair on flop, you have to play defense against drawing opponents. 

nPlyrs: 
On the one hand, top hands play better against fewer opponents. Top pairs are more likely to be best against two or three hands than it against six to seven hands. On the other hand, while multi-way action devalue your hand relative to some of the other hands, your overall expectation may still be increased due to the extra money. 
The best top pair hands -- ATo, KJo and better -- tend to benefit more from extra money than they lose from multi-way action

Action: 
With good top pair cards you should usually raise. If many of your opponents are playing poorly, get that extra money in the pot pre-flop, before they know the flop will miss them. 

####Speculative Hands
44: Small pocket pair

78s: Suited connected hands

Speculative hands do not prevail frequently, but they make big hands and win big pots when they do. Small pairs make big hands when they flop sets. Suited connectors make big hands when they flop flushes, straights and strong draws that come in. After the flop, speculative hands often play offense when they flop a very strong hand or draw. By the turn, many opponents may be drawing dead against a speculative hand(opponents will rarely be drawing dead against top pair). Speculative hands can make a lot of money on the big turn and river bets. 

nPlyrs:
Speculative hands play better against many opponents. Many opponents create bigger pots. Against few opponents weak speculative hands like 65s and J8o may not make enough when they get luck to make up for all the pre-flop and flop bets lost when they miss. 

Action:
These hands, especially the weak ones, need to see the flop cheaply. Stronger speculative hands, small pocket pairs and big suited connectors like T9s and up, can afford to pay two bets to see the flop(though they are often more profitable for one bet). Weaker hands like 75s usually annot make up two bets. In almost all situations, none of these hands can afford to pay three or more bets to see the flop. 

####Powerhouse
KK: Big pocket pairs
AQs: big suited cards

Big pocket pairs and big suited cards often make top pair, but they also make powerful hands like sets and flushes respectively. 

nPlyrs:
They play well against many or few opponents. 

Action:
While off-suit top pair hands frequently play defense on fourth and fifth street, these strong hands have the potential to make money on all betting rounds. You should raise with them to exploit this advantage.

###The Value of Position
Position is the second most important component of hand value(your own and your opponents' cards are the most important). In late position you have two advantages on all betting rounds:

1. You can see what your opponents do before you must act. 
2. Your opponents do not know what you will do before they must act. 

Action:
With a speculative hand you would usually like to play in an unraised pot. From late position you will know if the pot is raised before you act. 
A hand like KJo may be profitable against weak hands, but it loses money against strong ones. If you have position, you can play when your opponents are weakest. 

After the flop, 
both seeing what your opponents will do and having your opponents guess at what you will do are valuable. With position you make more money after the flop with almost all hands. 

###Non-Pair Hand Attributes
In a multi-way pot, the best hand will generally be something between a pair and a full house. All non-paird hands have the same chance to make two pair, trips, and a full house. They mainly differ in strength based on their ability to make top pair, straights, and flushes. There are three valuable attributes to look for (in order of importance): 
1. High card strength (top pair likelihood)
2. Suitedness (flush likelihood)
3. Connectedness (straight likelihood)

How to decide: 
To be worth playing, a non-pair hand usually must be strong in at least two of the three categories. 
Specifically, hands like T4s and 76o are not worth much. T4s is suited, but has little highcard strength and no connectedness. 76o is connected but has no high card strength and is not suited. Being suited or connected is valuable, but alone these qualities do not make a hand any better than average. Hands like 87s that are suited and connected are considerably better than average. 

High card strength is generally the most importance attribute. 
Hands like AKo and AQo are very strong despite being off-suit and able to make only one straight. Hands with two big cards are much stronger than those with only one, because:

1. They can make top pair with either card
2. When they make top pair, they always have a good kicker

Compare KQo to A7o. 
KQo can make top pairs with both king and queen while A7o can only make top pair by pairing the ace. Furthermore, when ace-seven makes a pair of aces, it is vulnerable to an opponent with a better kicker. So KQo is stronger. 

###The Importance of Being Suited
Why: 
In a multi-way pot, a suited hand is much better than its off-suit counterpart. 
If you hold two suited cards, exactly three more cards of your suit will appear by the river is a little less than 6% of the time. This lead some people to conclude that suited and off-suit hands run closely. These people are mistaken. While you usually do not make a flush, when you do, the reward is enormous. Winning a few extra large pots makes a big difference. 

Being suited also affords other advantages. Suited hands have more value on the flop than off-suite hands. One pair is often a vulnerable holding, but a pair plus a flush draw is always strong. Or you can flop a backdoor flush draw, adding value to weak  holdings like middle pair or a gutshot. 

Action:
The stronger your hand, the more latitude you have to play aggressively after the flop. If your hand includes a flush draw, you may bet and raise instead of check and call(or fold). You will win some hands where you began drawing to a flush, but backed into something else. You will pick up pots with a bet when no one has a good hand, even though you have not made your hand yet. When your hand is off-suit(with no flush Pot), you miss these opportunities. 

Since being suited affords a major advantage in a multi-way pot, having an off-suit hand sometimes puts you at a disadvantage. If you have six opportunities, expect many of them to have suited hands. An off-suit must be very powerful to overcome its intrinsic liability. 

###Two Major Costly Errors
1. Playing weak hands out of position, particularly weak off-suit hands
2. Cold-calling raises with mediocre and potentially dominated hands

####Playing weak hands out of position
Avoid marginal hands, particularly off-suite ones, in early position. 
Many hands require specific playing conditions to be profitable. For instance, some need the pot to be unraised or multi-way. Others are better with few opponents. In early position you must act before you know which conditions will be present. 
In the situation when your hand is profitable to call for one bet but you are out of position, you might call an early bet and then have it raised and re-raised behind you. You will wish you had not called the first bet and will now be forced to fold for the two additional bets. 

####Cold-Calling Raises with Mediocre Hands
Cold-calling is calling two or more bets when you have not yet invested any money. Never cold-call pre-flop raises with easily-dominated off-suit hands. 

You should play extremely tightly if someone has raised in front of you. 
When someone raises, it typically indicates a strong hand.@ Unless you are in the big blind, you should usually play only hands that are strong enough to raise the raiser(against a tight raiser, AA through JJ and AKs). 
If the pot is very likely to be multi-way, you can flat call with a few other hands, specifically small pocket pairs and some strong suited hands(JQs). Two or three other hands -- AQs, AJs and KQs -- are also usually marginally profitable. You should fold everything else. 

To play against a raise in his spot, your hand should compare favorably to the range of hands hat he might raise with, not just the worst of his possible hand. 
In fact, the only off-suit hand you should usually play against a raise is AKo (also AQo against a loose raiser). 

For example, you have ATs in middle position, the player UTG a tight unimaginative player raises, everyone folds to you. You should fold. Otherwise, you will be likely to be playing against a significantly better hand with only one or two other players' money to pad the pot. 


##Finally
> The most important pre-flop sections are the conceptual ones. 

If you remember nothing else about pre-flop play, remember these four foundamental priciples:
1. Play tightly in early position, more loosely in late position
2. Raise with your better hands
3. Play only the strongest off-suit holdings
4. Play very tightly if someone has raised in front of you
